Hey everybody, welcome to the podcast.
My guest today is Dr. Andrew Huberman.
Andrew is a neuroscientist.
He's a Neurobiology Professor at Stanford Medical School
and McKnight Foundation and Pew Foundation Fellow
and the founder of Huberman Lab, where he's involved
in all kinds of really amazing breakthrough research
on brain function, brain plasticity and brain regeneration.
His work has been published in top journals like Nature.
He's been featured in publications
like Time, Scientific America and the BBC.
And he's here today to discuss the brain,
to discuss growth mindset, how to focus,
how to navigate the stressful times and many other subjects.

It's an incredible conversation.
I think you guys are gonna enjoy it.
I appreciate you watching
make sure to hit that subscribe button
and without further ado, this is me
and Dr. Andrew Huberman.

First of all, thanks for doing this.
I appreciate you coming out.
Yeah, my pleasure. Long time coming.
I'm glad we're doing it in person-
Likewise. And not remotely.
And I think what I wanna do is start with your origin story,

because you're a very,
it's your path is very unlikely,
your path to becoming a scientist.
And I think it actually also kind of contextualizes
some of the things that I wanna talk about with you today.
So maybe start there.
Sure, so on the one hand, you know,
maybe I was faded to become a scientist.
I guess the two things that are relevant there
are I always loved animals
and I've always been obsessed with animal behavior.
Like just could watch Cousteau shows growing up, you know
underwater life or animals hunting, animals doing anything.
It's just so fascinating to me because I'm, I think even
at a really young age, I've always just been intrigued
in sort of what drives different animals to behave
in the way they do and how body form matches to,
I didn't know what it was,
but brains and how that all works.
So I've always been obsessed with animals.
And then my dad's a scientist, so he's a physicist.
It was really early in chaos theory.
And so growing up in our home, you know, we had scientists
over for dinner and graduate students would come over
for barbecues and things like that.
Is he a Stanford professor?
Yeah, he was at Stanford.
He was mostly at Xerox Park, which is kind of famous
if you read the Steve Jobs book is for the, yeah.
The development of the gooey interface
the graphical user interface
and sort of early days of the computer.
So he had a lab there and he had a lab in applied physics
at Stanford and something called symbolic systems
which is a Stanford degree
in kind of ecology and computation, that kind of thing.
So I grew up in this family where science was very prominent
and we had lots of discussions
in our home that I would overhear
and I didn't understand about physics and we'd spend summers
at the Aspen Center for Physics, which was like-
Good times. Yeah, so, you know,
and we were, and to be clear, you know,
you hear the word Aspen, you know,
we were a middle-class family
but they have this Aspen Center for Physics.
So the Feynman, you know, Richard Feynman was there,
Murray Gell-mann,
like all these luminaries of physics, Peter Carruthers.
And my dad was really good at telling me the stories
about these guys and then I'd always wanna meet them.
And it was mostly guys back then,
there weren't many women in physics.
So I, you know, I was kind of immersed in science
from a young age, but right about age 13,

my parents split up.
And he moved overseas, he moved to Denmark
and my mom was really struggling with the breakup
and I wasn't in contact with him anymore.
So I had this really unusual childhood where, you know,
we didn't talk about sports, we talked about science,
and I had this close relationship with science
and the people around science
but then all of a sudden the structure around family
like instead of dinners together every night,
it was just like me and my mom
and I was an adolescent, I was hitting puberty.
So, you know, there was bound to be some shifts
in my world landscape and internal landscape anyway.
But basically what happened was, I stopped
really paying attention to school.
And I got really heavily into skateboarding
and the kind of punk rock music.
And I found my pack or my community
through like packing community of kids
that also just were kind of parentless.
So this was like late 80s, early 90s.
And so at a pretty young age, I started taking the,
I grew up in Palo Alto.
I was actually born at Stanford Hospital.
I started taking the seven F bus up to San Francisco
and hanging around in Embarcadero.
For the skateboarders out there, the Lizards,
this is the the now famous EMB crowd.
So this was the birth of a huge movement
of skateboarders that became professionals.
Like, so you'd see the young Danny Way
would come through town and you had Rob Dyrdek.
I remember when he came through.
So all these names that eventually became popular
during the kind of X games era and the,
but at that time it was really underground.
And so it was this pack of maybe a hundred guys
and it was run like a little city and it was chaos.
It was like there was fights,
and there was drinking and there was lawlessness,
there was also a lot of amazing skateboarding
and there were a lot of amazing people.
And there were some older guys,
like one in particular, a very famous skateboarder,
is this kid, Mike Carroll,
his older brother was kind of like the older brother
to everybody, kind of kept us all in check.
So it had its own unique organization.
And it's actually interesting
'cause the same thing was happening at that time
in Washington Square Park in New York,
and at Love Park in Philadelphia, there were all these
like communities of kids that were basically parentless.
And so in that time I saw some interesting things.
First of all, I learned what it was to be parentless.
Growing up in Palo Alto,
it was like soccer games and AYSO and you know,
swim club and all of a sudden I realized, you know,
I don't have to be home at any particular time,
or, you know, none of these kids are going to school.
And so we all, it was kind of a big group of truants.
And it was interesting because it gave me a perspective
that I had never had in Palo Alto.
And I was drifting further and further away
from any kind of academic rigor.
I think I would go to school every once in a while.
What's mom doing?
Does she have any idea
that you're going up to the city every day?
So she was totally checked out.
You know, I think she was just devastated
by a bunch of things that were happening
and she lapsed into a pretty serious depression.
And then in that community, what was interesting is,
I started seeing that, you know, some guys were clearly
faded to becoming professional skateboarders.
They were really good at it.
I just wanna say for full disclosure,
I was not particularly good.
I kept getting injured.
I just, I was not faded to be, you know, exceptional
or very good at it, but I love the comradery
and I love the community, but I also noticed that, you know,
some people were drinking all day and other people got
into hard drugs and people started to, you know,
some of the dysfunction really started to show up.
Yeah, the fracture.
Yeah, the fracture. Begins.
Exactly, and so,
and I started seeing that, lot, a lot more violence.
You know, people start getting their girlfriends pregnant.
They didn't have money to support those kids.
You know, it started becoming apparent to me
that there was a lot of dysfunction
as well as a lot of incredible people in that community.
And so about that time, I got a girlfriend,
and the other thing was I got removed from high school.
So I went to kind of the famed/infamous high school
in Palo Alto, Gunn High School.
Oh, you went to Gunn.
I went to Gunn, which is famous because it's the,
one of the most academically rigorous schools
in the country, maybe the planet,
people moved to the area just to send their kids there.
But it also has this very complicated reputations
of the highest suicide rate of any school in the country.
The New York Times has written about this.
So, you know, I would come to school every once in a while
but I could tell you far more about the curbs
in the front of the Gunn High School parking lot
than I could about anything that I learned at Gunn.
So when they say they, you were removed,
I mean, you got, you were expelled.
No, I basically, they just said,
you need to either start coming to school or, you know-
You're done. Or you're done.
So I got shifted to another high school
and that was same story.
It was just was, it was a mess, it just fell apart.
And so at one point I was brought in, I have a kind
of vague recollection of this, but I was brought in
to have a discussion with a school counselor.
And I don't think I've ever told this story before.
And there was someone sitting in the corner,
this guy was sitting in the corner
and he didn't introduce himself.
And pretty soon I realized when I was like,
I think they're gonna take me away.
Like I started realized, 'cause they realized my mom
wasn't really able to control me.
Wasn't really in a place to support me at that time.
And that's what they did.
They took me away.
They took me into a place up the peninsula,
which was not a jail and it wasn't a hospital.
It was just sort of a place where they put kids
that were- Like some kind of
GV warehousing situation?
Yeah, a lot of psychologists,
lot of locks on doors, lot of,
lot of kids that, there were 12 of us in there
at any one time, it was locked down.
And the first night there,
I remember I had a roommate who was like really
into cutting on himself, that kind of thing.
And he told me, he was like, "Look, if you just
do what they say here, you'll be outta here in like a month.
And if you don't, you're gonna be here a very long time."
And I remember being pretty frightened for the first time.
And at that point I was like,
oh my goodness, like, this is bad.
You know, like, this is bad.
I'm a long way. It's so hard for me
to imagine. I know, I know.
This given you know, who you are and what you do now.
I know and you know, and it was literally like the kind
of one phone call a day kind of thing.
So actually I called I was skateboarding for a company
in San Francisco.
I think they put me on out of sympathy
and I called this guy up and I said, "Look, I've, you know,
they locked me up, I don't know what to do.
Can you help me?"
And he get, and I'll never forget,
I wanna say his name because you're the most normal guy
I know.
Well, he's like-
The least likely of that crowd.
Exactly. For that to happen.
So, in any event, I was permitted to go back to school
eventually, provided that I went to therapy.
And so I started going to weekly therapy
which in the early 90s was kind of a weird thing.
You would, wouldn't admit it to your friends
but tweets skateboard around Stanford campus.
I was doing my thing and then twice a week
I would go in and see this therapist.
He's a remarkable guy because A,
he had deep training in the mind, right?
And we started talking about what was going on.
And he really picked up on the fact
that there was essentially no structure,
no home life for me, but that I had a strong drive,
and I was really interested in learning.
I mean, I was, I was enthusiastic and motivated enough to,
you know, skateboard as hard as I could,
even though I wasn't gonna go anywhere with it.
So at that point, and the fact that I had a girlfriend,
I started looking for something that I could do.
And I started at one point
I thought I'd join the fire service,
'cause it seemed like the comradery was good.
At that point, I started strengthening my body a bit
because I didn't wanna keep getting hurt.
So I started running, I started lifting weights,
a football coach at Gunn actually turned me on to fitness.
It's actually an interesting guy.
He wrote the script for that movie "Mr. Mom,"
Oh my God.
Yeah, because his wife bet him
that he couldn't do what she could do,
which was stay home with the kids.
And he was this big strong football coach.
And so he made her a bet and he lost.
And so he wrote that script Michael Keaton played the, yeah.
So he taught me, he was like, look, you know
you can't even do a pull up.
You need to start doing your pull-ups and you start running
you know, and he said, the fire service
might be good for you.
So, I was spinning out, but there were people
that were willing to kind of, you know,
point me in the right direction.
So what ended up happening was my high school girlfriend
went off to college and I didn't, you know,
I didn't know what I was gonna do.
So I actually went and I lived in the parking lot
outside her dormitory. I just wanted to be near her.
She was my family at that point.
A college locally or?
She was at UC Santa Barbara.
So you just drove down and-
I just drove down and I just camped out in the parking lot
and people, and I was starting to get into some martial arts
and Thai boxing then.
So I think I was teaching some Thai boxing,
self-defense stuff on campus and doing this kind of thing.
And by the end of that year, I realized
that I should probably apply to college.
So I applied to UCSP and somehow I got in,
Lord knows how I got in.
I did, 'cause I did eventually graduate high school, barely.
Got in, and then after a year I just completely flailed it.
You know, I wasn't going to class.
I was getting into fights, a lot of that kind of mischief
and kind of wildness was still in me.
And what ended up happening was,
I got into a physical altercation on July 4th, 1994
with like a bunch of guys.
And at the end of that, I walked back to the place
I was staying, and of course I wasn't paying rent
because I had learned in those years,
like you can just squat in an empty house.
So, you know, it's Isla Vista California, you know?
So I was really running wild and went back
and just I realized I was like, this picture is really bad.
You know, at some point,
this isn't gonna be like a kid who had some problems,
this is gonna be,
truly. It's not cute anymore.
It's not cute anymore And no one,
no one's gonna make excuses about your upbringing
or the lack of parenting.
It just becomes, you just, you're gonna end up
being a ward of the state.
I mean, you were, it sounds like you were,
you were almost a feral animal.
Totally feral.
Actually, and I have some close friends
that's how they they referred to me, that feral.
And it's funny even to this day, I mean,
I'll get to where this eventually took me.
But even to this day, when I go into a home
where it's clearly like a loving home
where there's kids are happy
and there's good food and it's warm and cozy
I always feel this thing like, wow, like amazing.
Like I sort of wanna be adopted by them immediately,
but you know, I'm 45 years old
so that's not appropriate at this age.
What's so interesting,
I keep thinking about David Epstein's book "Range."
Did you read this book?
Which is basically this thesis
that some of the most successful people are not,
you know, we suspect that, you know,
the great talents of the world across all disciplines
are the people who discover their passion at an early age
and practice it voraciously for many, many, many years.
But in fact, it's people more like yourself,
who've dabbled in all different kinds of things
who end up being ultimately, you know,
the most proficient at their selected skillset.
And when I look at your experience,
I see trauma, I see adventure,
I see, you know, all these obstacles that you've had to face
and overcome and manage on your own essentially, right?
And all of those really informed perfectly
the things that you're interested in
and what you explore today in your lab.
Yeah, it really did.
You know, I think that I'm so grateful for those years.
I wouldn't wish them on any kid,
because I think having a secure, loving environment
at home is so key.
And, you know, I should say about a third of the kids
that I grew up with in that environment,
that whole skateboarding, punk rock culture,
about a third have gone on to found companies
or professional skateboarders,
about a third just kind of drifted off
and about a third are dead or incarcerated.
You know, a huge number.
And so there's real value in having a support system,
that's clear, but it exposed me
to all these things like addictions, schizophrenia, rage,
like all these incredible elements.
Like I was never really into drinking and drugs.
I could drink or not drink.
It just wasn't, I wasn't drawn to it, but other people
they took one sip and it was like, that was their thing.
It was like the magic elixir for them.
And so, you know, I was observing what was happening.
And then after that, you know, that July 4th '94 incident
was, I realized this is it, you know, it's now or never.
It really was one of those moments.
You know, you hear about those moments
but it was me realizing I'm living in this squat
where I've got a pet ferret.
My girlfriend's gone, she broke up with me.
She was smart enough to break up with me, you know,
I'm getting in fights, I'm working at a bagel shop.
I'm barely making ends meet.
And at that point I just made the decision.
I just said, okay, look,
I'm not gonna be a professional athlete.
I think I'm pretty good at memorizing things.
I think I have an interest in people,
I'm going to just decide, I just decided to do school.
I decided that was the, that was the track.
And so like, some people pick the military
because it's like, if you know what to expect
at least in terms of the, you know,
the passages that you're gonna go through.
And for me that was school.
And so I had decided, get back in school.
I moved into a studio apartment by myself.
I quit partying completely, I didn't go to parties.
I got really serious about fitness.
So I just started running and lifting weights and I studied.
You went like Henry Rollins style.
I did.
Yeah.
I did. It's a lot of self-awareness
you know, I mean, people go into the military
because on some level, I mean,
some people do because they're, there's some yearning
for having that structure imposed upon their lives.
But you constructed that kind of structure for yourself.

Yeah, I think I was really afraid.
I think I was like, you know, and I and these days,
you know, 'cause of my lab studies fear
and I get into this whole thing around mindsets
and people always ask me like,
is it better to do something from a place of love or fear?
Like depends.
And at that point, fear was the best motivator for me.
And I just basically worked like crazy.
And it's interesting because I didn't have a mentor
or someone to bring me to that.
But once I started doing that, you know,
there was one professor in particular who took note,
he was like, "Oh, you know,
you seem really interested in this stuff."
And I was like, yeah, 'cause he was teaching me
about depression, schizophrenia, neuro-chemicals.
I thought, I was totally turned on
by the world of neuroscience.
It didn't, it wasn't even called neuroscience back then.
But this one guy, Harry Carlisle
he was teaching me about thermal regulation
and how the brain works and how receptors
in the skin relate to perceptions in the mind.
And he also had a deep sensitivity to mental disease.
And I'd seen a lot of that, you know,
I'd seen a lot of depression and anxiety in my own family.
I had had a friend commit suicide.
Another friend becomes schizophrenic.
I think he's still walking the mission district
of San Francisco now.
Seeing some friends become addicts.
And so here was someone explaining that there's actually
an underlying basis for this.
And I just poured myself into it.
Is that the same guy who, you know,
would smoke underneath the vacuum hood and stuff like that?
Like a bit of an (indistinct).
Yeah, he was amazing.
So he was a favorite teacher of many students,
but if you could get into his lab
then you were kind of one of the chosen ones I guess.
He's like the perfect mentor at the perfect time for you.
Yeah, so he used to drink coffee in lab
which you're not supposed to do.
He's just smoke cigarettes in lab in the fume hood.
And they used to come and yell at him
and he would do it anyway.
And I thought, you know, this guy
he doesn't even know what it is, but you know,
he's a punk rocker and he doesn't even know.
And so, you know,
he gave me an opportunity to work in his lab.
And at some point he told me, if you go to graduate school
they'll actually pay you to do science.
And what ended up happening at that point
was I hit a brick wall because I was,
I had a lot of resentment toward my dad.
I felt, you know, here's my dad.
He was a scientist, he had, you know,
left us all this kind of thing.
And I realized if I didn't do this,
if I didn't take this opportunity,
it was going to be the most foolish thing ever.
You know, what am I gonna do to spite my, you know,
my parents, you know, I was 20 years old at that point.
So I just made the decision.
I'm gonna get a PhD and become a professor.
I'm going to get tenure and be like this guy, you know
this guy who has looked like he had a pretty good life
to me, and so that's pretty much how I spent the, you know
the last 25 years of my life is doing experiments.
It worked out.
It worked out, is it, a lot of work,
I mean, I didn't have the power of concentration.
I hadn't read all the good books that Gunn High School
students read growing up.
I had to learn how to speak properly.
I learned how to, learn how to think properly
and really learn how to commit to something
that was very linear and at times was very painful.
And I went to some pretty extreme things.
I, you know, I actually used to set a timer
and I wouldn't allow myself to get out of the chair
until I was, the timer went off.
So, and I would experience extreme agitation
but over time I got pretty good.
And now I can do long stints of work without any breaks.
And yeah, it worked out.
It developed that neuroplasticity
in your favor, ultimately.
You're always a reader though, right?
I loved books.
So I would, you know, I would hide
in the tower books section in the evenings
and I would read everything about fitness, psychology,
anything I could, I've always devoured information.
My favorite book when I was a kid was the "Encyclopedia,"
or the "Guinness Book of World Records."
So I was like, when I was a little kid,
I'd walk around the Aspen Center for Physics.
And I would tell anyone, I didn't even ask them,
if they want to hear about like the,
what's the world's smallest ethereum mammal.
You know, I would like, it could tell you all these facts
that were kind of meaningless at the time,
but I've always been fascinated
by the inventory of different animals on the planet
and their different behaviors.
And so yeah, voracious reader and still now.
I love, I love information.
Well, as a neuroscientist, I mean,
you're your own patient.
I mean, the fact that you were able to, you know,
turn your life around in such a dramatic fashion
and do it essentially through sheer will and you know
setting up practices that would feel you,
you in that right direction,
and then being available when those mentors
showed up from the, from the, you know,
the early therapist, sounds like that guy
almost saved your life, right?
He absolutely saved my life.
He gave me the book, "Wherever You Go, There You Are"
the Jon Kabat-Zinn book.
And he said, no pressure, but if you can develop
a mindfulness practice where you can sit still
for like 10 minutes a day, it'll serve you very well.
So I started doing that.
Like he could've, he could've told me to hang out
of a window by my ankles, I would have done it.
I think there was a, there was a self preservation thing
was kicking in for me.
So I got very interested in mindfulness meditation.
He also, it was, I think, quite smart in saying,
look there's a whole world of psychedelic drugs
that are powerful in influencing the mind.
He said, "If you're going to explore those,
wait until your brain has already developed,"
which I think is a controversial statement in and of itself.
He, so he actively discouraged me to go down that path,

which I think was the right thing,
given I was a minor, you know,
and nowadays there's all this discussion now
about psychedelics and their power.
And I think they are very interesting compounds
but he really steered me towards behavioral practices.
Like what could I do each day from waking up
to going to sleep that would serve my mental health
and my productivity well.
I owe him a tremendous amount.
And especially because he wasn't just
in the psychoanalytic theory,
he also was like cognitive behavioral.
He understood the power of practices
not just discussing issues.
Yeah, to begin a meditation practice at that age
in the mid 90s, that's pretty radical.
Yeah, I felt it was funny 'cause I thought
if I didn't sit in the lotus position
like I wasn't doing it properly, you know,
back then there was all this stuff around,
it was very mystical and in my family
'cause my dad's very conservative
and my mom was a little bit more of a free spirit.
I was taught that anything that related to hippie culture
was doomed to fail and cause problems.
And then anything that was related
to like conservative culture was faded
to advance the progress of humanity.
It turned out neither one was true, of course.
So I, but I needed people to push me in those directions,
lift weights, run, meditate,
do your schoolwork, do your homework.
And so I think I, you know, now I have a good relationship
with my parents, but I think I had to go out
into the world and find those, you know, sort of paternal
and maternal figures because they weren't in my home.
I needed to find those.
Do you look back on your upbringing with gratitude?
Like how do you reflect on that experience
and how it informs how you think about what you do now?
I'm immensely grateful for it because you know,
where I'm at today is, you know, my lab works on a number
of issues related, you know, sort of hardcore neurobiology
of regenerating the brain, you know, trying to fix,
basically cure blindness and repair visual systems,
but also things related to, you know, fear, courage,
mindset, stress, anxiety, trauma, et cetera.
And the early seed of seeing how science is done,
definitely gave me an advantage.
I won't lie, you know, I seeing how scientists interact
and behave and understanding that they are just people.
'Cause a lot of what was discussed in my home was
about the people, not just the science they do,
that really gave me an advantage.
And then seeing all that dysfunction and realizing
that the human animal is amazing at making plans,
at modifying its brain if it wants to, but the human brain
and the human animal are also dreadfully bad
at doing what's best for us.
Because of this, what I think it comes down to is the fact
that our reward systems are not designed
for things that are just good for us.
They're designed for things that optimize the progression
of our species, but they're also, they will grab on to
and ratchet into any behavior that makes us feel good.
And so the human brain is really not optimized
for making best choices.
And so, those years of seeing all that.
I could testify to that.
Yeah, it's and it's, I wouldn't trade those years
for anything.
And I still have great friends in that community.
I mean, I think, you know, any, had I joined
a different community, I would have found the right people
as well, but to be with a, you know, a huge pack
of feral kids at that age
and to see the function and dysfunction
and also it was wild, it was a lot of fun.
I can imagine. It was a lot of fun.
That's a whole set of stories
for another time. Did you see that movie,
"Mid 90s?"
"Mid 90s" and the movie "Kids", the Larry Clark movie.
When I saw that movie, first of all, I had a lot
of friends that were in that movie
'cause he used actual skateboarders.
In "Kids?"
Yeah, I actually knew a couple of those kids
and you know, it's a movie, but there are a lot of things
about that movie they're very accurate.
And when I saw that movie
I was like, yeah, that's like right.
Pretty much a day in the life in Washington Square Park.
And you know, I mean it was a little extreme on some end
but you didn't know where you're gonna end up each night.
And that was a unique experience, you know?
So yeah, and "Mid 90s" was really good.
I think it captured the essence of what it is to be a kid
that's just looking for some group of people to join.
And skateboard is a unique sport because you get young kids
and grown men and now women and girls do it as well.
It didn't happen so much then, but now there are a lot
of great, awesome skateboarders that are female
but they're all hanging out together.
You wouldn't find that in soccer.
You're not gonna get little kids playing with grown men.
So you get exposed to a lot 'cause everyone's
at develop, different developmental stages.
But yeah, it was an amazing thing.
I wouldn't change it for anything.
Cool, well, let's segue into talking about the brain
and maybe we could start with, you know,
how you think about the brain specifically?
Like, what is the brain, what does it do?
What does it not do?
You know, it helps us survive.
It's our portal into trying to make sense of the world.
Like what's the starting point
in the discussion around the brain?
Yeah, so the brain and nervous system, which
so it's like brain spinal cord connections
with the body and back in.
I don't distinguish between brain and mind.
I think that's like an 80s discussion or earlier.
And I think it would take us down the wrong track.
So brain or mind to me is interchangeable.
Mind, body, is kind of interchangeable
because the brain is connected to the body
and the body is connected to the brain, right?
If I, you know, pinprick my hand and it hurts
my brain registers it where it happens
it's kind of an irrelevant discussion.
I think we really need to just appreciate
that the nervous system is designed
to orchestrate all the processes in the body
not just thinking and not just behavior
and really can be divided into five things.
So there's sensation and sensation is really bound
or restricted by the receptors in the body.
So receptors in the eye that perceive photons, light energy
per se, receptors in the skin that perceive pressure
you know, touch receptors, smell, taste, hearing, et cetera.
And the interesting thing about sensation and the fact
that the nervous system needs to pay attention
to sensation is it's non-negotiable.
The nervous system of humans is designed
to extract physical phenomenon from the universe
that are non-negotiable, photons of light.
I can't see in the infrared with my eyes
and I can't see ultraviolet light with my eyes.
And I can't perceive that
because I don't have the receptors for it.
So, you know, other animals can perceive
some of those things
but that leads us to the next thing, which is perception
which is which sensations are you paying attention to.
So all the time you're sensing things like right now
your feet are sensing the contact with your shoes,
but you're not thinking about it until I say that.
And then you shift your perception.
